---
layout: post
title:  The Road Trip
author: philipshane
tag: Research
share: false
youtubeId: 6qJzm45LKfw
---

There are so many ways in which you can dig into a person's thoughts, feelings and ideas about a subject. Making documentaries through the years has taught me that there is no one 'right way' to do this; in fact, there are probably as many ways to get to someone's innermost perceptions as there are individuals.

In my research for [The Myst Documentary](https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/philipshane/the-myst-documentary), I have trekked out to Seattle and Spokane, and had many calls and video chats with Robyn and Rand. It's been, and continues to be, one of the most enjoyable and enlightening things in my life, and it's one of the things I love the most about making documentaries: getting to know the stories of the people who have most inspired me in my own life.

But I have never actually considered going back to the sources of Robyn and Rand's inspiration... I didn't even know where I could find them... until now.

My recent conversations with Robyn have focused on the impressively rich story of the Miller Family: Rand, Rod, Robyn and Ryan, and their loving mother and father. Some people have asked what will be "new" in this film that hasn't been "reported" before? To that, I say, the "telling" of stories isn't the highest form of cinema. The delight of filmmaking, and the even greater delight of film watching, comes from "being there."

Over the past couple of weeks, as our conversations have continued, Robyn has been emphasizing for me how much the deepest core of *Myst* -- the wellspring of it's mood, it's mystery, it's majesty -- comes from profoundly influential trips that his parents would take him on around their home in New Mexico. And, even further back in his childhood, and in Rand's childhood, the family traveled farther and more widely than many have in a lifetime. And at every step along the way, Robyn was feeling the magic of America's western landscapes, the call of other cultures, of ancestors, and ancient worlds.

Check out this video of Robyn about to reveal something he has unearthed after years!
{% include youtubePlayer.html id=page.youtubeId %}